.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine <frankie@debian.org>
.\" See copyright section for conditions of redistribution
.TH RADIUSD_PAM 7 "Sep 1, 2004" "1.0.20" "Yard Radius Manual" 
.SH NAME
radiusd_pam \- information about PAM and radiusd
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radiusd 
is able to use PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules) for authentication
and logging. PAM support is available under Linux, FreeBSD,
HP-UX, Solaris and possibly other flavors of Unix.

You need to enable PAM support at configuration time for compiling in the
needed additional code, and also to activate it at run-time with the
.BR "-P " and " -A " "options for " radiusd .
The two above options enable separately authorization and accounting via PAM.

You should use the special
.BR "Auth-Type=PAM" " attribute in your" 
.IR users " file" 
in order to enable PAM authorization. As default 
.B radiusd
will look for a 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radiusd_attributes (5),
.BR pam (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Original PAM support for RADIUS is due to 
Jeff Blaize <jblaize@kiva.net>. Minor modification are due to C. Gafton
and Francesco Paolo Lovergine <francesco@yardradius.org>.
.P
A complete list of contributors is contained in CREDITS file. 
You should get that file among other ones within your distribution 
and possibly installed under
.BR "PREFIX/docs " directory
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine. All rights reserved.
.P
See the LICENSE file enclosed within this software for conditions of 
use and distribution. This is a pure 
.B "ISO BSD Open Source License" .
