'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine <frankie@debian.org>
.\" See copyright section for conditions of redistribution
.\" $Id: radiusd_attributes.5.man 83 2004-08-28 13:32:47Z flovergine $
.\"
.TH RADIUSD_ATTRIBUTES 5 "Aug 25, 2004" "1.1" "Yard Radius Manual"
.SH NAME
radiusd_attributes \- extended users attributes 
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page describes the differences between YARD RADIUS syntax of 
.I users
file and the `standard' one of Livingston RADIUS Daemon 2.1. A complete
description of the syntax of that file is not the scope of this document.

The
.I users 
text file contains security and configuration information for
each user. The first field is the user's name and can be up to 
8 characters in length.  This is followed (on the same line)
with the list of authentication requirements for that user.
This can include password, comm server name, comm server port
number, and an expiration date of the user's password.  When an
authentication request is received from the comm server, these
values are tested.  Special users named "DEFAULT", "DEFAULT2",
"DEFAULT3" can be created (and should be placed at the end of
the user file) to specify what to do with users not contained
in the user file.

Indented (with the tab character) lines following the first
line indicate the configuration values to be passed back to
the comm server to allow the initiation of a user session.
This can include things like the PPP configuration values
or the host to log the user onto.

Again, a description of all attributes and values is not the topic
of this document. See NOTES section below for a complete reference 
about.

.SH "YARD RADIUS ATTRIBUTES"
YARD RADIUS uses some private non-protocol attributes to support its 
specific features. They are integer or string attributes that you
could set to manage in some ways user accesses:
.TP
.BR Yard-Simultaneous-Use : 
The maximum number of simultaneous logins for a user. 
It's a positive value.
.TP 
.BR Yard-Time : 
It's a list of the access times (week day(s) and hours) during
which the user is authorized to login. 
It is a comma-separated list of items such as 
"Wk0800-1800,Sa0800-2400,Su0800-2400". Each item follows a 
syntax like "DDHHMM-HHMM", where DD=Mo,Tu,We,Th,Fr,Sa,Su,Al,Wk and
HHMM are the times of access in 4 characters form. 'Wk' means
all 5 weekdays ('Mo'-'Fr') and 'Al' is the whole week.
.TP
.BR Yard-Max-Monthly-Time :
The maximum number of on-line hours the user can be on-line per
month. It is a positive value.
.TP
.BR Yard-Max-Monthly-Traffic :
The maximum number of Kbytes of traffic the user can totalize per
month. It is a positive value.
.PP
.BR "Yard-Max-Daily-Time" :

.BR "Yard-Max-Daily-Traffic" :

.BR "Yard-Max-Yearly-Time" :
.TP
.BR "Yard-Max-Yearly-Traffic" :
At this point, all these attributes are obvious.
.TP
.BR "Yard-Pam-Auth" :
This string is the name of the PAM authentication service to
use instead of the default one, which is "yard". This is used to
parse the 
.BR pam.conf , 
or the 
.B pam.d 
directory to get the PAM module
to use for auth/acct. You could prefer something like "radius",
for instance.

.PP
YARD RADIUS extends also the predefined values of the standard Auth-Type
attribute, with the following ones:

.TP
.BR PAM
Use PAM authentication module. The service name could be specified
with a 
.B Yard-Pam-Auth 
attribute or it implies the default one "yard".
.TP 
.B System
Use system passwd file with or without shadowing. Shadow support 
should be enabled when calling the `configure' script only if
your system requires the use of getspnam() in order to get the
encrypted password. Not all systems that support shadow password
have that function. If your system has a transparent shadowing
support, you do not need any specific enabling. Notably this 
is true for FreeBSD.

If you like so, you can also enable 'shadow expirations'. Systems
which support this feature must have a compatible getspnam()
with an expiration field in the spwd structure. 
So, enabling this feature implies enabling shadow support. 
When shadow expiration is enabled you can require system-based 
expirations by using a conventional attribute value like 
Expiration="SHADOW".
.TP
.B Safeword
Not yet supported.
.TP 
.B Defender
Not yet supported.

.PP
But for the above attributes and values, many vendor specific attributes
and values are parsed and legal for YARD RADIUS server. You can refer to
the 
.I dictionary 
file for a complete list. Vendor attributes are useful only when 
the communication server is configured to send VSA mode requests. Some
old communication servers could be unable to do this, and in 
that case you should modify manually the dictionary.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B PREFIX/conf/users
This file contains the human readable information for users' accounting
and authorization.
.TP
.B PREFIX/conf/users.db
The same of the previous one as compiled in by
.B builddbm
in GDBM format.
.TP
.B PREFIX/conf/dictionary
This read-only file contains the codes and formats for 
standard and vendor RADIUS protocol attributes and values along with 
their human readable representation. It is subject to change, due to
new access server supports. It is a plain text file with a pletora
of comments in it.
.TP
.B PREFIX/docs/rfc/rfc2138.txt
Request For Comments about Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS).
.TP
.B PREFIX/docs/rfc/rfc2139.txt
Request For Comments about RADIUS Accounting.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
RFC2138, RFC2139
.SH AUTHOR
Francesco Paolo Lovergine <francesco@yardradius.org>.
.P
A complete list of contributors is contained in CREDITS file. 
You should get that file among other ones within your distribution 
and possibly installed under
.BR "PREFIX/docs " directory
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1992-1999 Lucent Inc. All rights reserved.
.P
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine. All rights reserved.
.P
See the LICENSE file enclosed within this software for conditions of 
use and distribution. This is a pure 
.B "ISO BSD Open Source License" .
.SH NOTES
See the
.IR "RADIUS for UNIX Administrator's Guide" 
as a complete reference
for all other attributes and values.  
It is freely available at 
.I http://www.livingston.com/tech/docs/manuals.html
at the time of this document. Note that many vendor attributes are described
only within vendor's documentation. 

Currently YARD RADIUS dictionary is 
updated with vendor's dictionary 
by Cisco, Lucent, 3COM, Redback, Springtide, Nortel and possibly others, 
whenever available.
