.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine <frankie@debian.org>
.\" See copyright section for conditions of redistribution
.\" $Id: radlast.1.man 83 2004-08-28 13:32:47Z flovergine $
.\"
.TH RADLAST 1 "Aug 25, 2004" "1.1" "Yard Radius Manual"
.SH NAME
radlast \- lists last users access and stats 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR radlast " [ "
.BR "\-chbx" " ] ["
.B "\-a "
.IR acct_dir " ] ["
.B "\-f "
.IR file " ] ["
.B "\-F "
.IR format_string " ] ["
.B "\-H "
.IR format_string " ] ["
.B "\-m " 
.IR month " ] ["
.B "\-u "
.IR user " ] ["
.B "\-y "
.IR year " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program gives a detailed list of last accesses for one or more
users. It does not collect statistical information. It's a fast
and compact dumper of the traditional `detail' files of Livingston's
Radius. It's output is in some way similar to that of the Unix command `last'
but also high-customizable (see FORMATS section below).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-a " acct_dir
Sets the accounting files directory prefix, instead of the 
default one, which is 
.I PREFIX/logs
.TP
.B \-b
Uses a single-row brief output format. 
.TP
.B \-c
Shows records in cronological order.
.TP
.BR "\-f " file
Uses this radlast logfile instead of the default stdout.
.TP
.B \-h
Prints out usage of the command.
.TP
.BR "\-F \-H " format_string
Define customized formats for output rows and the header. 
See FORMATS section below.
.TP
.BR "\-m " month
Reports statistics for month 
.I month
where month is in the range 1-12.
.TP
.BR "\-y " year
Reports statistics for year
.I year
that is a four digits number.
.TP
.B \-x
Shows extedend information (include traffic and phone CLIs)
.P
.SH FORMATS
.B radlast
does allow the user to  have a customized output format with the `-F' 
command line option (see above). The program accepts and outputs any
character in a format string and parse it to find some %-prefixed
one-letter tokens. Those `a la' printf tokens are substituted with
corresponding entry values.
Normal C substitution are performed for \\\\,\\t,\\n,\\r and \\%.
The list of legal % tokens follows, any oher combination is parsed 
and ignored.

.TS
l l.
Token	Value
_
%l	Username
%p	Port ID
%a	NAS ip address
%k	Port type
%c	Client ip address
%d	Date in ctime format
%t	Online time in secs
%T	Online time in HH:MM:SS format
%i	Input traffic in bytes
%I	Input traffic in KBytes
%o	Output traffic in bytes
%O	Output traffic in KBytes
%m	Total traffic in bytes
%M	Total traffic in KBytes
%s	Input speed in bps (or UNKNOWN)
%S	Output speed in bps (or UNKNOWN)
%A	NAS called id (or UNKNOWN)
%#	Client calling id (or UNKNOWN)
%%	literal '%'
.TE

.SH FILES
.TP
.I "PREFIX/logs/YEAR/radlast-XX"
These are the files which constitutes the radlast database. They are in 
binary not-indexed format and functionally equivalent to the text files
`detail-XX'. The main difference is that detail files are organized on
a per client base. See below.
.TP
.I "PREFIX/logs/NAS/YEAR/detail-XX"
These text files stores accounting information for every access server
(NAS) listed in the 
.I clients
file. Each user session is identified by a unique session-id and these
accounting files store start/stop records for every single authenticated
session. Information stored in those records, but for a group of standard
ones, strictly depend on the NAS model and operating system. 
.SH BUGS
The 
.BR "-x " option
apparently is not working.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR builddbm (8),
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radlist (1),
.BR radtest (1),
.BR radwatch (1),
.BR radius_attributes (5),
.SH AUTHOR
Francesco Paolo Lovergine <francesco@yardradius.org>.
.P
A complete list of contributors is contained in CREDITS file. 
You should get that file among other ones within your distribution 
and possibly installed under
.BR "PREFIX/docs " directory
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997 Cristian Gafton. All rights reserved.
.P
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine. All rights reserved.
.P
See the LICENSE file enclosed within this software for conditions of 
use and distribution. This is a pure 
.B "ISO BSD Open Source License" .
