.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine <frankie@debian.org>
.\" See copyright section for conditions of redistribution
.\" $Id: radlist.1.man 83 2004-08-28 13:32:47Z flovergine $
.\"
.TH RADLIST 1 "Aug 25, 2004" "1.1" "Yard Radius Manual"
.SH NAME
radlist \- lists current on-line users and per user stats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR radlist " [ "
.BR "\-bhnstx" " ] ["
.BR "\-D|M|Y " "] [" 
.B "\-F "
.IR format_string " ] ["
.B "\-d "
.IR day " ] ["
.B "\-m "
.IR month " ] ["
.B "\-y "
.IR year " ] ["
.B "\-u "
.IR user " ] ["
.B "\-y "
.IR year " ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program gives detailed statistics for current users on line (which
is the default) or any user you like.
Its statistics are on a per-day/month/year base and can be used to
produced useful reports.
It shows on-line time and traffic,
along with numbers of logins and current port usage.
Its output can be largerly customized as you prefer with a
suitable format string. See FORMATS section below.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Uses a brief output format. 
.TP
.B \-t
Uses a `traditional' tabular output format.
.TP
.BR \-n
Skips the header when `-t' option is used.
.TP
.B \-h
Prints out usage of the command.
.TP
.BR "\-F \-H" format_string
Define customized formats for output rows and the header. 
See FORMATS section below.
.TP
.BR "\-m " month
Reports statistics for month 
.I month
where month is in the range 1-12.
.TP
.BR "\-y " year
Reports statistics for year
.I year
that is a four digits number.
.TP
.B \-x
Shows extedend information (port information).
.TP
.B "\- u" user
Gets a single username database entry, i.e. select a specific username 
to report statistics for that user only.
.TP
.B "\-M \-D \-Y"
Reports statistics on a dayly/monthly/yearly basis. They should be used
along with d,m,y options. If not specified current date and 
.B \-M 
is considered.
.P
.SH FORMATS
.B radlist
does allow the user to  have a customized output format with the `-F' 
command line option (see above). The program accepts and outputs any
character in a format string and parse it to find some %-prefixed
one-letter tokens. Those `a la' printf tokens are substituted with
corresponding entry values.
Normal C substitution are performed for \\\\,\\t,\\n,\\r and \\%.
The list of legal % tokens follows, any oher combination is parsed 
and ignored.

.TS
l l.
Token	Value
_
%l	Username
%s	Number of current sessions
%n	Total number of sessions in the period specified
%t	Total online time in secs
%T	Total online time in HH:MM:SS format
%i	Total input traffic in bytes
%I	Total input traffic in KBytes
%o	Total output traffic in bytes
%O	Total output traffic in KBytes
%m	Total traffic in bytes
%M	Total traffic in KBytes
%k	Mean online time per session in secs
%K	Mean online time per session in HH:MM:SS format
%g	Mean traffic per session in bytes
%G	Mean traffic per session in KBytes
%%	literal '%'
.TE

No alignment decimal values are allowed in this version of format strings. 

.SH FILES
.TP
.I "PREFIX/logs/YEAR/user-stats"
These are files which constitutes the yearly radlist database. They are in 
binary GDBM format and collect statistics on a per user base, day by day.
.TP
.I "PREFIX/logs/NAS/YEAR/detail-XX"
These text files stores accounting information for every access server
(NAS) listed in the 
.I clients
file. Each user session is identified by a unique session-id and these
accounting files store start/stop records for every single authenticated
session. Information stored in those records, but for a group of standard
ones, strictly depend on the NAS model and operating system. 

.SH BUGS
The 
.BR "-x " option
apparently is not working.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radlast (1)
.BR builddbm (8),
.BR radtest (1),
.BR radwatch (1),
.BR radius_attributes (5)

.SH AUTHOR
Francesco Paolo Lovergine <francesco@yardradius.org>.
.P
A complete list of contributors is contained in CREDITS file. 
You should get that file among other ones within your distribution 
and possibly installed under
.BR "PREFIX/docs " directory
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997 Cristian Gafton. All rights reserved.
.P
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine. All rights reserved.
.P
See the LICENSE file enclosed within this software for conditions of 
use and distribution. This is a pure 
.B "ISO BSD Open Source License" .
