.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine <frankie@debian.org>
.\" See copyright section for conditions of rednistribution
.\" $Id: radtest.1.man 83 2004-08-28 13:32:47Z flovergine $
.\"
.TH RADTEST 1 "Aug 28, 2004" "1.1" "Yard Radius Manual"
.SH NAME
radtest \- RADIUS server test program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR radtest " ["
.B "\-afnrvx" " ] ["
.B "\-d "
.IR called_station_id " ] ["
.B "\-g "
.IR calling_station_id " ] ["
.B "\-i "
.IR id " ] ["
.B "\-p "
.IR port " ] ["
.B "\-s "
.IR secret " ] ["
.B "\-t "
.IR type " ] "
.B "\-u "
.IR username " "
.I password
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radtest
is a program useful to test the configuration of a running RADIUS
daemon. You need to add localhost to servers' authorized clients.
This program is a client for authentication protocol only, it does
not manage accounting packets currently.

You could use it to test either the YARD RADIUS daemon or any other 
standard RADIUS server.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-a"
Sets accounting protocol on. Not yet implemented.
.TP
.BR "\-d " called_station_id
Sets the called station identifier for building packets.
.TP
.B \-f
Sets user type to framed. This is overrided by 
.B -t 
option below. 
.TP
.BR "\-g " calling_station_id
Sets the calling station identifier for building packets. 
.TP
.B \-h
Prints out usage of the command.
.TP
.BR "\-i " id
Sets the packet identifier to number `id'.
.TP
.B \-n
Not yet implemented.
.TP
.BR "\-p " port
Uses udp port `port' instead of the value specified in 
.I /etc/services 
or the default one (1645).
.TP
.B \-r
Not yet implemented.
.TP
.B "\-s " secret
Specifies the secret key to use (default is localkey)
.TP
.B \-v
Prints version information.
.TP
.BR "\-l " file
Changes the logging file. 
.TP
.BR "\-x"
Prints (or should do so) debugging messages while compiling.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I PREFIX/conf/users
This file contains the human readable information for users' accounting
and authorization. See 
.BR radius_attributes (5)
for details about its syntax.
.TP
.I PREFIX/conf/users.db
The same of the previous one as compiled in by
.B builddbm
in GDBM format. It needs to be compiled again every time you make
changes to the previous one and without restarting 
.B radiusd .
.TP
.I PREFIX/conf/dictionary
This read-only file contains the codes and formats for 
standard and vendor RADIUS protocol attributes and values along with 
their human readable representation. It is subject to change, due to
new access server supports. It is a plain text file with a pletora
of comments in it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR radiusd (8),
.BR radlast (1),
.BR radlist (1),
.BR radtest (1),
.BR radwatch (1),
.BR radius_attributes (1),
.BR gdbm (3)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1992-1999 Lucent Inc. All rights reserved.
.P
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Francesco Paolo Lovergine. All rights reserved.
.P
See the LICENSE file enclosed within this software for conditions of 
use and distribution. This is a pure 
.B "ISO BSD Open Source License" .
.SH NOTES
The syntax of the source 
.I users 
file is not described here.
Please, refer to the official Livingston documentation, 
which includes the 
.IR "RADIUS for UNIX Administrator's Guide" . 

